My internship experience has been great and a very good learning experience. I was not only able to learn about C, I was able to learn about caching, disks, storage, and network management. I will go over each assignment I had to complete and what I accomplished.

Assignment 2: I used a mdadm linear device in order to add JBOD into a preexisting system. There were many things I had to do. Starting is, I needed to mount the linear device and add the bytes to the starting address. I had to make sure the disk was mounted and if it was, then I would confirm the JBOD was 32 bits. I implemented a read function that would read the disk and read it by dividing it into blocks and making sure it was within the size limits of the disk. I also implemented mounting functions that would check if it was mounted, and if it was, then I implemented functions to unmount and vice versa. I was able to implement this assignment successfully, so I don’t have any revisions I would have made if I could go back and do it again.

Assignment 3: I took the previous assignment and added more functions. The first things I implemented a write function, with permissions to write that can be enabled and disabled. The write function lets you write to the JBOD. It makes sure to check whether or not you were able to write first, by checking the length and address. If it was able to be written, it would write to the JBOD while looking at the IDs and offsets and go over each block until it reached the end. I was able to implement this assignment successfully, so I don’t have any revisions I would have made if I could go back and do it again.

Assignment 4: For this assignment, I continued my previous assignment and I added more functions to my previous assignment. I implemented a cache into the mdadm from before. I also implemented functions that the cache could carry out and help manage the cache. I made sure to keep the cache open to new cache entries so that it has space available. I also implemented functions to enable and disable the cache, find and insert blocks into the cache and store the address for cache entries. The hardest point for me implementing the cache was adding it to the read and write operations. But I was eventually able to get it done after lots of time invested. One thing I learnt about caches was the inverse relationship between size and cost. There is also a positive relationship between size and hit rate. This is because the more entries makes it more likely to have a hit. I was able to implement this assignment successfully, so I don’t have any revisions I would have made if I could go back and do it again.

Assignment #5: For this assignment, I implemented client-server support in order to make the mdadm be used remotely by users. I had to first distinguish my jbod operations between client and server and implement this. I spent a lot of time editing my original mdadm.c implementation. I also had to implement a lot of functions to support the network as well. I had an easier time understanding what was going on because I am taking CMPEN 132: Communication Networks, which I feel like helped my understanding of what this assignment was requesting. I had functions that would help connect to the server sockets and also disconnecting from them. I also made sure to implement handling the sockets blocking. I also made sure that the write data was being transferred between the sockets. I also made sure to implement the packets with the network protocols that the assignment requested, such as the info codes, op codes, and data blocks. I also had to make sure the clients and servers communicated properly using requests. This was the hardest assignment for me, and the office hours were very helpful, especially for implementing my net.c file. 

Overall, I really enjoyed this assignment and this helped me understand C and other computer and network workings in depth. 
